So what are codes sets,
and why are they important?
For the purposes of this course,
when we refer to a code set,
we are referencing an EHR data field that is linked to
an accepted codes standards such as ICD-10 or CPT codes.
Examples of important code sets are diagnosis codes and procedure codes.
We'll go over these in more detail later.
So why do we need code sets?
There are many different providers in EHR systems around the world,
and there needs to be a standard way to encode common diagnoses,
medications, procedures, and lab tests around the world.
In this lesson, we'll focus on some of
the most common code sets to allow for some of the most high value analysis.
Before we delve into more details about some of the key healthcare industry code sets,
I want to provide some context on the medical encounter.
First, it is important to note that medical records often go through a process from
a written note or
some other unstructured input to a structured medical code that is standardized,
but can be very specific.
There's a whole industry of medical coders that take this unstructured information,
encode it to medical standards and into EHR records.
Second, another piece of information that is relevant to industry codes
is whether the encounter incurred in an inpatient or outpatient setting.
Inpatient usually refers to hospitalization,
and outpatient refers to visits and encounters like with
your primary care physician or specialists like a cardiologist,
but do not require hospitalization.
Outpatient can also refer to ambulatory care.
There are some more specific details about this,
but for the scope of this course,
we will focus on the higher level general definition.
With that being said, it's important to work with subject matter experts who know
the domain and processes at
a much deeper level because of operational or domain experience.
There are a lot of intricacies and details in healthcare that require you
to work deeply with SMEs to understand the context better.
That being said, you should feel empowered to bring the technology in
AI perspective to the table and rethink legacy processes as well.